Chapter 1: Finding the Furry Cat!

Poem
Looking, looking, looking
Looking for my furry cat!

Are you sitting on the window shed?
Are you sleeping under my bed?
Where are you my furry cat?

Looking, looking, looking
Looking for my furry cat!

Are you inside the backpack?
Are you outside the red rack?
Where are you my furry cat?

Saw you hiding below the mat,
Here comes my furry cat!
Come, come, come
Come to me my furry cat!

Saw you hopping above the hat,
Come, come, come
Come to me, my furry cat!

Saw you scratching the bottom of my jar,
Saw you playing at the top of my car.
Come to me, my furry cat!

Activities

Read and Recite

Read aloud the poem.

Ask children to recite and enact it.

Discuss things which are above, below, on, under, etc.

Let us Play — Find the Things

Children can hide objects (like chalk, red ball, etc.)

Others must find them using positional words like inside/outside, far/near, above/below.

Examples:

Look for a white thing hidden near the board and under the table.

Look for a red thing outside the classroom and under the tree.

Think and Answer

A. The red ball is above / under / on the bed.
B. The cat is inside / outside / on the car.
C. The man is lying under / inside / on the tree.
D. The cow is inside / top of / outside the house.

Let us Play — Throw the Ball!

Tick (✔) the things which are inside.

Each child throws a ball inside a basket.

If it goes inside, children say IN.

If it goes outside, children say OUT.

Modify for inclusive activity (use sound, textures, ghungroo, etc.).

More Activities

B. Tick (✔) the things which are outside.
C. Look at the picture and tick (✔) the correct words.
D. Draw a smile below the nose and eyebrows above the eyes.

A boy is sitting on / under the tree.

Birds are on / under the tree.

Our National Flag (Tiranga)

How many colours are there?

Tick (✔) the correct option.

i. Which colour is at the top of the tiranga? → white / saffron / green
ii. Which colour is below the white colour? → pink / saffron / green
iii. Which colour is above the green colour? → white / saffron / yellow
iv. Where is the Ashoka Chakra? → on a corner / in the middle / on a side

Discuss when, where, and why we hoist the flag. Encourage making a tiranga and singing the National Anthem.

Chhuk Chhuk Goes Our Train!

Poem
Chhuk chhuk! Chhuk chhuk!
Goes our train.
Over the hills and down to the plains.
Chhuk chhuk! Chhuk chhuk!
Goes our train.

Bogies before my bogie,
Bogies after my bogie,
Make a chain,
Over the rivers and in the rain.

Chhuk chhuk! Chhuk chhuk!
Goes our train.

Questions

A. How many bogies are there after the engine?
B. How many bogies are there before the red bogie?
C. Fill orange colour in the bogies after the red bogie.
D. Fill blue colour in the bogies before the red bogie.

Encourage children to share experiences of train journeys, draw trains, or make them using waste materials.

Play — Train Game

Children form a train by holding shoulders.

Each says who is before and after them in the train.

Sorting Activity

Group objects like seeds, leaves, beads, buttons, etc.

Example: Suwali grouped buttons into three groups.

Discuss why she grouped them so.

Try sorting in other ways.

Project Work

Arrange the classroom cupboard.

Use positional vocabulary:

Put two objects in the bottom rack.

Put one object in the top rack.
